## Rails
*Min 8hr Max 16hr*

To build a Rails application you'll need to be able to save and retrieve data
from a database using SQL, send HTML and CSS back to the browser, navigate your
computer using the command line, and use git to version control your source
code. Because Rails requires so many skills at once, we don't want the focus of
the prework to be Rails, but rather getting introduced to the concepts
necessary to build modern web applications. Hopefully the first time we talk
about Rails in the classroom, it won't be the first time you've heard the terms
controller or route, but it's also not the goal to master Rails before you get
here. With that in mind, feel free to spend as much time as you'd like
exploring Rails through the following tutorials. However, we're going to cover
all of this in depth during the semester so it's probably best to use these
turorials as a guide for the component skills you'll need to build web
applications. For example, how much Ruby do I need to know? Can be answered by
building a Rails application and seeing how much Ruby you need to know.

### Learning Objectives
  1. Understand how to create a basic data model
  2. Posting data from a web form to create new objects in the database
  3. Controllers
  4. Routes and URLs
  5. The Params Object
  6. Gathering data from a database, sending the data from the controller to the view

### [Getting Started with Rails Guide](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html)

[http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html)

This guide covers getting up and running with Ruby on Rails. After reading it, you should be familiar with:

  * Installing Rails, creating a new Rails application, and connecting your application to a database.
  * The general layout of a Rails application.
  * The basic principles of MVC (Model, View, Controller) and RESTful design.
  * How to quickly generate the starting pieces of a Rails application.

### [Rails for Zombies](http://www.codeschool.com/courses/rails-for-zombies-redux)

[http://www.codeschool.com/courses/rails-for-zombies-redux](http://www.codeschool.com/courses/rails-for-zombies-redux)

Ruby on Rails, the most popular framework in-use by Zombies. That's right, you can basically be brain dead and use Ruby on Rails. No offense to brain dead people or zombies.

### [Building Facebook](http://teamtreehouse.com/library/programming/build-a-simple-ruby-on-rails-application)

[http://teamtreehouse.com/library/programming/build-a-simple-ruby-on-rails-application](http://teamtreehouse.com/library/programming/build-a-simple-ruby-on-rails-application)

### [Building Facebook II](http://teamtreehouse.com/library/programming/building-social-features-in-ruby-on-rails)

[http://teamtreehouse.com/library/programming/building-social-features-in-ruby-on-rails](http://teamtreehouse.com/library/programming/building-social-features-in-ruby-on-rails)

### [Building Facebook III](http://teamtreehouse.com/library/programming/advanced-social-features-in-ruby-on-rails)

[http://teamtreehouse.com/library/programming/advanced-social-features-in-ruby-on-rails](http://teamtreehouse.com/library/programming/advanced-social-features-in-ruby-on-rails)

That's right, in theory, if you've gotten this far, you are ready to make a
billion dollars and build a simple version of Facebook!

### [Michael Hartls Rails Tutorial](http://ruby.railstutorial.org/ruby-on-rails-tutorial-book?version=3.2)

[http://ruby.railstutorial.org/ruby-on-rails-tutorial-book?version=3.2](http://ruby.railstutorial.org/ruby-on-rails-tutorial-book?version=3.2)

This has long been the best Rails tutorial on the web. Please make sure you are
using Rails version 4. This is a great project to get a sense of what a
beginner web application is. The amount and complexity of the Ruby he uses in
this tutorial is pretty minimal but you can start to get a sense of what Ruby
it'd be useful to know to be able to feel comfortable building web
applications.

<br />

### Some Bonus Material

### [Rails for Zombies 2](http://www.codeschool.com/courses/rails-for-zombies-2)

[http://www.codeschool.com/courses/rails-for-zombies-2](http://www.codeschool.com/courses/rails-for-zombies-2)

In part 2 of Rails for Zombies, you learn even more about how to use this
amazing framework.