## Ruby
*Min 20Hr Max 40Hr*

  >My conscience won’t let me call Ruby a computer language. That would imply
  >that the language works primarily on the computer’s terms. That the language
  >is designed to accomodate the computer, first and foremost. That therefore,
  >we, the coders, are foreigners, seeking citizenship in the computer’s
  >locale. It’s the computer’s language and we are translators for the world.

  > But what do you call the language when your brain begins to think in that
  > language? When you start to use the language’s own words and colloquialisms
  > to express yourself. Say, the computer can’t do that. How can it be the
  > computer’s language? It is ours, we speak it natively!

  > We can no longer truthfully call it a computer language. It is coderspeak.
  > It is the language of our thoughts.

  > [_why's poignant guide to ruby](http://mislav.uniqpath.com/poignant-guide/)

Programming allows you to automate common, repetitive tasks on the computer.
Developers use programming languages to write software, the software you
interact with every day. From you alarm clock to your computer; from the web to
the satellites orbiting our planet, software powers all of it.

Ruby is a programming language that we can use to do any task that needs to be
automated. For example, something that is really irritating is a cluttered
"Downloads" folder on your Mac. We could write a program that moves a file to a
new folder, based on it's file extension, whenever we download something. A
"scripting-language" would be best suited for this task.

Ruby is one of the most popular languages to create web applications. A web
framework is a tool that makes developing for the web relatively simple. The
most popular web frameworks for Ruby are Sinatra and Ruby on Rails. All of
these languages and web frameworks are considered server side languages as they
will be run on an actual web server.

### Learning Objectives

  1. Basic Ruby syntax
  2. Defining a method
  3. Looping and iteration
  4. Ruby data structures
  5. The concept of `self`

### [The CodeAcademy Ruby Track](http://www.codecademy.com/tracks/ruby)

[http://www.codecademy.com/tracks/ruby](http://www.codecademy.com/tracks/ruby)

We think the CodeAcademy Ruby Track is a comprehensive and engaging way to
cover the fundementals of the Ruby Langauge. Do it all. The super super
important parts are:

  * [Intro to Ruby](http://www.codecademy.com/courses/ruby-beginner-en-d1Ylq?curriculum_id=5059f8619189a5000201fbcb)
  * [Methods Methods Everwhere](http://www.codecademy.com/courses/ruby-beginner-en-MxXx5/0/1?curriculum_id=5059f8619189a5000201fbcb)
  * [Control Flow](http://www.codecademy.com/courses/ruby-beginner-en-NFCZ7?curriculum_id=5059f8619189a5000201fbcb)
  * [Thtrings and Things](http://www.codecademy.com/courses/ruby-beginner-en-JdNDe/0/1?curriculum_id=5059f8619189a5000201fbcb)
  * [Loops and Iterators](http://www.codecademy.com/courses/ruby-beginner-en-XYcN1?curriculum_id=5059f8619189a5000201fbcb)
  * [Iteration Obfuscation](http://www.codecademy.com/courses/ruby-beginner-en-mzrZ6/0/1?curriculum_id=5059f8619189a5000201fbcb)
  * [Data Structures](http://www.codecademy.com/courses/ruby-beginner-en-F3loB?curriculum_id=5059f8619189a5000201fbcb)
  * [Data Structures Meet Iteration](http://www.codecademy.com/courses/ruby-beginner-en-693PD/0/1?curriculum_id=5059f8619189a5000201fbcb)

But again, we highly recommend you do it all, twice possibly.

### [Treehouse Ruby Foundations](http://teamtreehouse.com/library/programming/ruby-foundations)

[http://teamtreehouse.com/library/programming/ruby-foundations](http://teamtreehouse.com/library/programming/ruby-foundations)

The Treehouse Ruby series is a great beginner resource. It's a bit slower
paced, so feel free to move faster if you got through the CodeAcademy unit
easily.

### [Learn to Program](http://pine.fm/LearnToProgram/)

[http://pine.fm/LearnToProgram/](http://pine.fm/LearnToProgram/)

Chris Pine's Learn to Program is a classic book that is mostly available online
for free. Read it all. Then buy it and read it again. By the point in the 
  prework, the fundementals of Ruby should be pretty clear. Pine's book is also 
  available at: [http://it-ebooks.info/book/36/](http://it-ebooks.info/book/36/
)

### [Flatiron School Ruby Assessment](http://bit.ly/flatiron-ruby-assessment)

[http://bit.ly/flatiron-ruby-assessment](http://bit.ly/flatiron-ruby-assessment)

Our assessment for basic Ruby knowledge. This is the high bar you can shoot for
in your Ruby understanding. You shouldn't be able to complete this on your own,
that's what we do at the Flatiron School!

### Some Bonus Material

### [Ruby Bits](http://www.codeschool.com/courses/ruby-bits)

[http://www.codeschool.com/courses/ruby-bits](http://www.codeschool.com/courses/ruby-bits)

Learn all the little bits that make Ruby one of the most popular programming
languages amongst non-programmers and programmers alike.
